hey how's it going Dave 2d here and this
is a video on the concept of using the
iPad pro as a laptop replacement so I've
been using mine for about three weeks
with iOS 11 and I really feel like
that's the operating system for these
guys and well ever since I have existed
people have been trying to use them with
limited success as laptop replacements
because it's quite appealing to thin
they're light they're not too expensive
and iOS 11 looked like I had a whole
bunch of new features that would make it
more viable
let's take a look starting with media
consumption iPads have always been great
for watching videos and listening to
music the 10 and a half inch iPad pro
has four speakers and they sound awesome
it's really weird that a tablet like
this has better speakers unlike 99% of
gaming laptops but it does it also has a
really nice screen the 120 Hertz panel
is excellent like straight up 10 to 10
you can literally see twice the number
of animation frames in the UI so
everything looks super smooth it's tough
to showcase this in a video because
they're seeing this at 24 frames per
second but if you see it in real life
you'll notice it right away
the thing is nothing outside of the UI
really makes use of that 120 Hertz panel
you're not watching videos at 120 frames
per second you're probably not playing
games at 120 frames per second so the
hardware is awesome but it just feels
untapped for what the device does now if
you're an artist the Apple pencil is
really nice when you iPad pros the lower
latency is noticeable to me I will say
though if your master plan is to pick up
an iPad pro and an Apple pencil to learn
how to draw don't do it it's not going
to happen start with paper and a pencil
so there's two big things in iOS 11 that
were really exciting to me drag-and-drop
and files so drag and drop is a new us
that allows you to drag and drop
multiple objects and I have to say it's
really well done and files is an app
that allows you to store files like mail
attachments or photos links downloads
you can help place them into various
cloud storage locations and it will show
up on devices that have that cloud
source so it'll show up on your laptop
your desktop whatever it might be so be
two features alone bring a level of
usability that I've never seen before in
an iPad I mean there were third-party
apps to do this kind of stuff before but
they just weren't nearly as fluid and
well integrated as these I would say
that it is a viable solution like if it
had to I could get by with using the
iPad pro as my
only device and I think a lot of
reviewers came to that similar
conclusion that the new iPad pros
running iOS 11 are a significantly
better experience than iPads were in the
past for using them as laptop
replacements but after using this for a
couple more weeks I thought what am I
doing here like why is this still so
difficult to use this as my laptop
replacement it's not as fluid and it's
not as nice as it should be I mean these
devices have been around for six seven
years and the touchscreen is never going
to be as precise as a mouse if you're
accessing websites or doing spreadsheets
or database stuff poking on the screen
like to click stuff it's usable but I'll
never be faster than a mouse or trackpad
and same with the drag-and-drop stuff I
send photo attachments from work very
frequently it works it's a welcome
addition but a keyboard and a track that
are just so much faster than this
split-screen worst wait should but it's
cramped and all the tapping and swiping
you need to do to get this split swing
going I'm fluent at the mechanics at
this point I've done it so often I know
other keyboard shortcuts I'm very
familiar with them but it's still never
going to be as fast as a laptop or tuned
one running a full fledged operating
system and that's my whole issue with
this proposition if you're going to
replace a laptop with this thing the
experience has to be as good as the
laptop that you're replacing or else why
would you use this right the keyboard is
not that I'm using the Apple one but if
I had a choice
I would never use this thing over a
regular laptop keyboard and it isn't
very slim once you add the keyboard onto
the device it does thick as a Microsoft
Surface pro or like a razor blade
stealth the pricing isn't too expensive
but once you add all the accessories and
stuff it's like eight or nine hundred
dollars which is in the realm of some
really good ultrabooks in tune ones so
the hardware on the iPad pro is
excellent the actual tablet itself has
so much potential
it's gorgeous the screen is beautiful
it's got amazing battery life that we
took an easy eight or nine hour battery
life on this thing I mean it's really
really cool but the software cripples
this thing iOS 11 is definitely a step
in the right direction but I think it's
still really far away from what this
tablet can do if I had a completely
different operating system that was more
conducive to regular work
so if media consumption is your jam like
if you're just buying this to listen to
music and watch videos go for it it's
expensive but it does a really good job
at it but if you're trying to use this
thing to replace a laptop
it's doable but it's still a giant pain
in the ass